#summary Griffin homepage

= Griffin =

Griffin is a GridFTP interface for arbitrary data sources.

=== Installation ===

To install, download the tar.gz file and extract. Then run
{{{
bin/install.sh $GRIFFIN_HOME
}}}
e.g.
{{{
bin/install.sh /opt/griffin
}}}
This assumes you run it as ''`root`''.

If you want to run it as a non-root user, you have to
 * Modify `/etc/default/griffin`, add 
{{{
APP_USER=non-root-user
}}}
 * Change the permissions of installed files. Usually that means that the the `logs` directory has to be for example assigned to a group that the user can write to, and add group write privileges to it.
 * Make sure this user has access to host certificate/key files
 * The plugin JAR file (`xxx-plugin.jar`) needs to be placed in the `$GRIFFIN_HOME/plugins` directory along with all required libraries (jar files).
 * Use `/etc/init.d/griffin` to start/stop. (For debugging the option "`check`" to the init script may help.)
 * For verification, inspect the log file under `$GRIFFIN_HOME/logs/griffin.log`

=== Build from Sources ===
If you build from sources, stay in the source folder's root directory, and build using ANT:

{{{
ant
ant -Dplugin=xxx
}}}

The `xxx` is a place holder for the plugin, and can be one of `jargon`, `localfs`, `mongodb` or `irods-conductor`. Some of these implementations may not be complete or work at a given moment.

=== Configuration ===
The main configuration file is `$GRIFFIN_HOME/griffin-ctx.xml`

GridFTP settings are
{{{
    <bean id="options"
            class="au.org.arcs.griffin.server.impl.FtpServerOptionsImpl"
            singleton="true">
        <property name="properties">
             <props>
                 <prop key="max.connections">20</prop>
                 <prop key="max.idle.seconds">600</prop>
                 <prop key="buffer.size">2048000</prop>
 		 <prop key="allowed.passive.tcp.ports">40000-41000</prop>
		 <prop key="allowed.passive.udp.ports">40000-41000</prop>
                 <prop key="ftp.port">2811</prop>
                 <prop key="charset.ebcdic">CP1047</prop>
                 <prop key="charset.ascii">UTF-8</prop>
                 <prop key="service.key">/etc/grid-security/irodskey.pem</prop>
                 <prop key="service.cert">/etc/grid-security/irodscert.pem</prop>
                 <prop key="service.trusted.certs">/etc/grid-security/certificates</prop>
                 <!-- <prop key="ipv4.black.list">!127.0.0.1,!192.*.*.*</prop> -->
             </props>
        </property>
    </bean>
}}}
Log configuration file is `$GRIFFIN_HOME/log4j.properties`

=== Storage Back-End Configuration ===
 * [IrodsConfiguration iRODS]
 * [LocalFilesystemConfiguration local file system storage]

== GridFTP specs ==
 * [http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc959.html RFC959 - File Transfer Protocol]
 * [http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc3659.html RFC3659 - Extensions to FTP]
 * [http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2228.html RFC2228 - FTP Security Extensions]
 * [http://www.ogf.org/documents/GFD.20.pdf GridFTP v1] [http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:oxVo41XI660J:www.ogf.org/documents/GFD.21.pdf+gridftp+Performance+Markers&hl=en&gl=au&sig=AHIEtbQeEFuNYVHXP-b9IkeOziDfQ0mlDA quickview]
 * [http://www.ogf.org/documents/GFD.21.pdf GridFTP v1 Improvements] [http://www.google.com.au/url?q=http://docs.google.com/viewer%3Fa%3Dv%26q%3Dcache:oxVo41XI660J:www.ogf.org/documents/GFD.21.pdf%2Bgfd%2B21%26hl%3Den%26gl%3Dau%26sig%3DAHIEtbRC9UUkoSpa0d_DxjGL6ThQiZ-dNQ&ei=xlNyS729GcqTkAXtxOHvCQ&sa=X&oi=gview&resnum=1&ct=other&ved=0CAgQxQEwAA&usg=AFQjCNGHwdOaXsIO15SMJInKCIhAfzxCfA quickview]
 * [http://www.ogf.org/documents/GFD.47.pdf GridFTP v2] [http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:LzBdnyjzvWQJ:www.ogf.org/documents/GFD.47.pdf+gridftp+spec&hl=en&gl=au&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEEShqw2iOgSVS4ltp86lZh0kh2qFynX6WV3QN9JziijYiC0ORVll6-AMx1i1Pj5Ep3QEG-GXTsU6atDmiAFNsmzeKQD90ohTQgNLlEx_SX_29aUcd_yAiRZCr0zNpXzYPvQgKqPP6&sig=AHIEtbQRyI5qCiomdMKRyrfxXiDzxqfz-w quickview]

== Publications ==

''Connecting arbitrary data resources to the grid.'' Shunde Zhang, Paul Coddington and Andrew Wendelborn. Accepted by [http://www.grid2010.org Grid Computing 2010], Brussels, Belgium, Oct 2010. [attachment:gc-paper-final.pdf PDF]

== Release Notes ==

 * [ReleaseNotes08x 0.8.4] -  23 March 2012
 * [ReleaseNotes08x 0.8.3] -  27 May 2011
 * [ReleaseNotes08x 0.8.2] -  7 Apr 2011
 * [ReleaseNotes08x 0.8.1] - 10 Mar 2011
 * [ReleaseNotes07x 0.7.3] - 11 Oct 2010
 * [ReleaseNotes07x 0.7.0] - 19 Apr 2010
 * [ReleaseNotes06x 0.6.0] - 15 Mar 2010
 * [ReleaseNotes05x 0.5.0] - 10 Feb 2010

Get RPMs from:

 * http://projects.arcs.org.au/trac/systems/browser/trunk/dataFabricScripts/iRODS/iRODS-GridFTP-RPMS

== License ==

This software is open source and under [http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html Apache 2] and [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html GPL].

== Acknowledgment ==

The implementation is based on an open source project, [http://sourceforge.net/projects/hermesftp/ Hermes FTP], and with help from [http://www.dcache.org dCache] project.